Genvisis Workflow | Automated pipeline for processing data | Genvisis can perform dozens of data processing steps to turn raw array and sequencing data into analyzable data using best practices. After selecting your analysis goals (e.g,. sample quality control, copy number variant calls, imputation-ready VCFs), the Workflow customizes which steps are needed to produce the best version of the desired data.

ScatterPlot | Visualize, annotate, and triage markers one at a time | ScatterPlot displays data for all individuals for a single marker and allows you to annotate and triage markers. For instance, those markers failing a QC metric such as call rate or Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium can be reviewed to see if they could be manually reclustered to rescue the marker. In addition, you can explore and correct batch effects, rescuing many markers with lower-quality data.

Trailer | Visualize, annotate, and triage samples one at a time | Trailer displays data for all markers for one individual and allows you to differentiate between good and bad copy number variant (CNV) calls, overlay the results from different CNV callers, and visualize different transformations of the data (e.g., GC correction). You can also interrogate aneuploidies, large mosaic events, and contamination and sample quality.

CompPlot | Visualize all copy number variant calls within a study | CompPlot visualizes all deletions (shown in a darker shade) and duplications (lighter shade) within a particular region of the genome for an entire study population at once. If we see lots of events overlapping a particular gene in individuals with a particular disease (red colors) and relatively few in healthy individuals (green color), then that gene is likely a cause of the disease.

MosaicPlot | Detect mosaic chromosomal alterations (mCAs) | MosaicPlot visualizes all chromosomal arms for all samples at once. The outliers (the colored dots) indicate chromosomal arms where a subset of their cells (such a mixture is called a mosaic) have been deleted or duplicated or have evidence of uniparental disomy. These mCAs may increase the risk of disease, especially cancer, and may also cause genotyping errors.

AncestryPlot | Visualize the genetic distance between individuals | AncestryPlot displays the result of a standard principal components analysis (PCA). Exploring higher-order PCs can help us distinguish between more closely related populations and identify possible haplotype effects or batch effects that we want to address prior to including these samples in a genetic analysis.

SexPlot | Determine how many X and Y chromosomes each person has | SexPlot displays the median log R ratio for the X chromosome on the x-axis and for the Y chromosome on the y-axis. Genvisis will categorize each individual as XX, XY, XO, XXX, XXY, XXYY, or XYY (including mosaic versions of each of these), and clicking on an individual will link to the Trailer module so you can visually confirm these assignments..


CustomPlot | Visualize values for any variable two at a time | CustomPlot allows you to plot any two variables from any file, including variables in different files that can be linked by sample ID, and to color-code them by any variable found in SampleData. Moreover, if there are sample ID and genomic location columns in the file (or if the name of the file is a genomic location), then clicking on a dot will open Trailer for that region of that individual.

ForestPlot | Compare the relative effect sizes of different genetic signals | ForestPlot implements a standard way of visualizing the relative effect sizes of genetic variants across multiple strata. This could be for the same phenotype across multiple studies or across multiple phenotypes for the same study, with the effect estimate of the meta-analysis shown as a diamond. It could also be used to demonstrate the relative contribution of multiple variants to a polygenic risk score.

ManhattanPlot | Visualize genetic signals across all loci in the genome | ManhattanPlot implements a standard way of visualizing a genome-wide association study and makes it easy to see the strongest genetic signals and the support they have from other variants in linkage disequilibrium with them.

QQPlot | Identify deviation from the expected distribution of p-values | QQPlot implements a standard way of visualizing a distribution of p-values. Ideally a p-value distribution for all the genetic variants (black dots) will form a tight line with the expected distribution of random chance (gray line) until the very end where it will deviate if the study has any significant findings.
